<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:ns="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis">
<head>
<title>Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="9780134757704.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="backmatter">
<h2 class="h2a" id="biblo"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_405"/>Bibliography</h2>
<p class="noindent">You can find an online version of this bibliography at <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoring-bibliography.html">https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoring-bibliography.html</a></code>. Many of the entries in this bibliography refer to the &#8220;bliki&#8221;&#8212;a section of <a href="http://martinfowler.com">martinfowler.com</a> where I provide concise descriptions of various terms used in software development. While writing this book, I decided to refer readers to explanations I&#8217;d written there rather than incorporate them into the text of this book.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib1">[Ambler &amp; Sadalage] Scott W. Ambler and Pramod J. Sadalage. <em>Refactoring Databases.</em> Addison-Wesley, 2006. ISBN 0321293533.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib2">[babel] <code><a href="https://babeljs.io">https://babeljs.io</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib3">[Bazuzi] Jay Bazuzi. &#8220;Safely Extract a Method in Any C++ Code.&#8221; <code><a href="http://jay.bazuzi.com/Safely-extract-a-method-in-any-C++-code/">http://jay.bazuzi.com/Safely-extract-a-method-in-any-C++-code/</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib4">[Beck SBPP] Kent Beck. <em>Smalltalk Best Practice Patterns.</em> Addison-Wesley, 1997. ISBN 013476904X.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib5">[chai] <code><a href="http://chaijs.com">http://chaijs.com</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib6">[eclipse] <code><a href="http://www.eclipse.org">http://www.eclipse.org</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib7">[Feathers] Michael Feathers. <em>Working Effectively with Legacy Code.</em> Prentice Hall, 2004. ISBN 0131177052.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib8">[Fields et al.] Jay Fields, Shane Harvie, and Martin Fowler. <em>Refactoring Ruby Edition.</em> Addison-Wesley, 2009. ISBN 0321603508.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib9">[Ford et al.] Neal Ford, Rebecca Parsons, and Patrick Kua. <em>Building Evolutionary Architectures.</em> O&#8217;Reilly, 2017. ISBN 1491986360.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib10">[Forsgren et al.] Nicole Forsgren, Jez Humble, and Gene Kim. <em>Accelerate: The Science of Lean Software and DevOps: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations.</em> IT Revolution Press, 2018. ISBN 1942788339.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib11">[gof] Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, and John Vlissides. <em>Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software.</em> Addison-Wesley, 1994. ISBN 0201634988.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib12">[Harold] Elliotte Rusty Harold. <em>Refactoring HTML.</em> Addison-Wesley, 2008. ISBN 0321503635.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib13">[intellij] <code><a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/">https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_406"/>[Kerievsky] Joshua Kerievsky. <em>Refactoring to Patterns.</em> Addison-Wesley, 2004. ISBN 0321213351.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib15">[langserver] <code><a href="https://langserver.org">https://langserver.org</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib16">[maudite] <code><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unibroue">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unibroue</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib17">[mf-2h] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: TwoHardThings.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TwoHardThings.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TwoHardThings.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib18">[mf-bba] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: BranchByAbstraction.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BranchByAbstraction.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BranchByAbstraction.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib19">[mf-cp] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Collection Pipeline.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/articles/collection-pipeline/">https://martinfowler.com/articles/collection-pipeline/</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib20">[mf-cqs] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: CommandQuerySeparation.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CommandQuerySeparation.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CommandQuerySeparation.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib21">[mf-cw] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: ClockWrapper.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ClockWrapper.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ClockWrapper.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib22">[mf-dsh] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: DesignStaminaHypothesis.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DesignStaminaHypothesis.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DesignStaminaHypothesis.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib23">[mf-evodb] Pramod Sadalage and Martin Fowler. &#8220;Evolutionary Database Design.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/articles/evodb.html">https://martinfowler.com/articles/evodb.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib24">[mf-fao] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: FunctionAsObject.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FunctionAsObject.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/FunctionAsObject.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib25">[mf-ft] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Form Template Method.&#8221; <code><a href="https://refactoring.com/catalog/formTemplateMethod.html">https://refactoring.com/catalog/formTemplateMethod.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib26">[mf-lh] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: ListAndHash.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ListAndHash.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ListAndHash.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib27">[mf-nm] Martin Fowler. &#8220;The New Methodology.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/articles/newMethodology.html">https://martinfowler.com/articles/newMethodology.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib28">[mf-ogs] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: OverloadedGetterSetter.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/OverloadedGetterSetter.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/OverloadedGetterSetter.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib29">[mf-pc] Danilo Sato. &#8220;Bliki: ParallelChange.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ParallelChange.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ParallelChange.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib30">[mf-range] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Range.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/Range.html">https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/Range.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib31">[mf-ref-doc] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Refactoring Code to Load a Document.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/articles/refactoring-document-load.html">https://martinfowler.com/articles/refactoring-document-load.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib32">[mf-ref-pipe] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Refactoring with Loops and Collection Pipelines.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/articles/refactoring-pipelines.html">https://martinfowler.com/articles/refactoring-pipelines.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib33">[mf-repos] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Repository.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/repository.html">https://martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/repository.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib34">[mf-stc] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: SelfTestingCode.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/SelfTestingCode.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/SelfTestingCode.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib35">[mf-tc] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: TestCoverage.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestCoverage.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestCoverage.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib36">[mf-tdd] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: TestDrivenDevelopment.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestDrivenDevelopment.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestDrivenDevelopment.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib37">[mf-tih] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: TypeInstanceHomonym.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TypeInstanceHomonym.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/TypeInstanceHomonym.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib38"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_407"/>[mf-ua] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: UniformAccessPrinciple.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/UniformAccessPrinciple.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/UniformAccessPrinciple.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib39">[mf-vo] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: ValueObject.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ValueObject.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ValueObject.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib40">[mf-xp] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: ExtremeProgramming.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ExtremeProgramming.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ExtremeProgramming.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib41">[mf-xunit] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: Xunit.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/Xunit.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/Xunit.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib42">[mf-yagni] Martin Fowler. &#8220;Bliki: Yagni.&#8221; <code><a href="https://martinfowler.com/bliki/Yagni.html">https://martinfowler.com/bliki/Yagni.html</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib43">[mocha] <code><a href="https://mochajs.org">https://mochajs.org</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib44">[Opdyke] William F. Opdyke. &#8220;Refactoring Object-Oriented Frameworks.&#8221; Doctoral Dissertation. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1992. <code><a href="http://www.laputan.org/pub/papers/opdyke-thesis.pdf">http://www.laputan.org/pub/papers/opdyke-thesis.pdf</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib45">[Parnas] D. L. Parnas. &#8220;On the Criteria to Be Used in Decomposing Systems into Modules.&#8221; In: <em>Communications of the ACM, Volume 15 Issue 12, pp. 1053&#8211;1058.</em> Dec. 1972.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib46">[ref.com] <code><a href="https://refactoring.com">https://refactoring.com</a></code>.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib47">[Wake] William C. Wake. <em>Refactoring Workbook.</em> Addison-Wesley, 2003. ISBN 0321109295.</p>
<p class="bib" id="bib48">[wake-swap] Bill Wake. &#8220;The Swap Statement Refactoring.&#8221; <code><a href="https://www.industriallogic.com/blog/swap-statement-refactoring/">https://www.industriallogic.com/blog/swap-statement-refactoring/</a></code>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>