<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>About the Authors</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/style0001.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1"/><link rel="up" href="index.html"/><link rel="prev" href="ix01.html"/><link rel="next" href="co02.html"/></head><body><div class="colophon" epub:type="colophon" id="id483756"><h2 class="title">About the Authors</h2><p>Eric Freeman recently ended nearly a decade as a media company executive, having held the position of CTO of Disney Online &amp; Disney.com at The Walt Disney Company. Eric is now devoting his time to WickedlySmart.com and lives with his wife and young daughter in Austin, TX. He holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Yale University.</p><p>Elisabeth Robson is co-founder of Wickedly Smart, an education company devoted to helping customers gain mastery in web technologies. She's co-author of four bestselling books, Head First Design Patterns, Head First HTML and CSS, Head First HTML5 Programming, and Head First JavaScript Programming.</p><p>Bert Bates is a 20-year software developer, a Java instructor, and a co-developer of Sun's upcoming EJB exam (Sun Certified Business Component Developer). His background features a long stint in artificial intelligence, with clients like the Weather Channel, A&amp;E Network, Rockwell, and Timken.</p><p>Kathy Sierra has been interested in learning theory since her days as a game developer (Virgin, MGM, Amblin'). More recently, she's been a master trainer for Sun Microsystems, teaching Sun's Java instructors how to teach the latest technologies to customers, and a lead developer of several Sun certification exams. Along with her partner Bert Bates, Kathy created the Head First series. She's also the original founder of the Software Development/Jolt Productivity Award-winning javaranch.com, the largest (and friendliest) all-volunteer Java community.</p></div></body></html>