<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Epigraph</title>
<link href="../styles/MIT_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:5e22faf7-6d97-43f5-a05d-571a507bcb19" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section>
<header><a id="d2e43"/>
</header>
<section>
<blockquote class="quote-BookEpigraph">
<p class="quote-BookEpigraphparafirst">“I think it's extraordinarily important that we in computer science keep fun in computing. When it started out, it was an awful lot of fun. Of course, the paying customers got shafted every now and then, and after a while we began to take their complaints seriously. We began to feel as though we really were responsible for the successful, error-free, perfect use of these machines. I don't think we are. I think we're responsible for stretching them, setting them off in new directions, and keeping fun in the house. Fun comes in many ways. Fun comes in making a discovery, proving a theorem, writing a program, breaking a code. Whatever form or sense it comes in I hope the field of computer science never loses its sense of fun. Above all, I hope we don't become missionaries. What you know about computing other people will learn. Don't feel as though the key to successful computing is only in your hands. What's in your hands, I think and hope, is intelligence: the ability to see the machine as more than when you were first led up to it, that you can make it more.”</p>
<p class="quote-BookEpigraphsource">—Alan J. Perlis (April 1, 1922–February 7, 1990)</p></blockquote>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>