<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Praise for other books by Eric Freeman and Elisabeth Robson</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/style0001.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1"/><link rel="up" href="index.html"/><link rel="prev" href="pr03.html"/><link rel="next" href="pr05.html"/></head><body><section class="preface" epub:type="preface" id="praise_for_other_books_by_eric_freeman_a"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title">Praise for other books by Eric Freeman and Elisabeth Robson</h2></div></div></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“I literally love this book. In fact, I kissed this book in front of my wife.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Satish Kumar</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“<span class="emphasis"><em>Head First HTML and CSS</em></span> is a thoroughly modern introduction to forward-looking practices in web page markup and presentation. It correctly anticipates readers’ puzzlements and handles them just in time. The highly graphic and incremental approach precisely mimics the best way to learn this stuff: make a small change and see it in the browser to understand what each new item means.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Danny Goodman, author of <span class="emphasis"><em>Dynamic HTML: The Definitive Guide</em></span></strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“The Web would be a much better place if every HTML author started off by reading this book.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>L. David Baron, Technical Lead, Layout &amp; CSS, Mozilla Corporation <span class="emphasis"><em><a class="ulink" href="http://dbaron.org/" target="_top">http://dbaron.org/</a></em></span></strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“My wife stole the book. She’s never done any web design, so she needed a book like <span class="emphasis"><em>Head First HTML and CSS</em></span> to take her from beginning to end. She now has a list of websites she wants to build — for our son’s class, our family...If I’m lucky, I’ll get the book back when she’s done.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>David Kaminsky, Master Inventor, IBM</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“This book takes you behind the scenes of JavaScript and leaves you with a deep understanding of how this remarkable programming language works.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Chris Fuselier, Engineering Consultant</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“I wish I’d had <span class="emphasis"><em>Head First JavaScript Programming</em></span> when I was starting out!”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Chris Fuselier, Engineering Consultant</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“The <span class="emphasis"><em>Head First</em></span> series utilizes elements of modern learning theory, including constructivism, to bring readers up to speed quickly. The authors have proven with this book that expert-level content can be taught quickly and efficiently. Make no mistake here, this is a serious JavaScript book, and yet, fun reading!”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Frank Moore, Web designer and developer</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“Looking for a book that will keep you interested (and laughing) but teach you some serious programming skills? <span class="emphasis"><em>Head First JavaScript Programming</em></span> is it!”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Tim Williams, software entrepreneur</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><p><span class="strong"><strong>Other O’Reilly books by Eric Freeman and Elisabeth Robson</strong></span></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Head First JavaScript Programming</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Head First HTML and CSS</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Head First HTML5 Programming</li></ul></div><p><span class="strong"><strong>Other related books from O’Reilly</strong></span></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Head First Java</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Head First EJB</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Head First Servlets &amp; JSP</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Learning Java</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Java in a Nutshell</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Java Enterprise in a Nutshell</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Java Examples in a Nutshell</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">Java Cookbook</li><li class="listitem" style="list-style-type: none">J2EE Design Patterns</li></ul></div></section></body></html>