<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Praise for Head First Design Patterns</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/style0001.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1"/><link rel="up" href="index.html"/><link rel="prev" href="dedication.html"/><link rel="next" href="pr03.html"/></head><body><section class="preface" epub:type="preface" id="praise_for_head_first_design_patterns"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title">Praise for <span class="emphasis"><em>Head First Design Patterns</em></span></h2></div></div></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“I received the book yesterday and started to read it on the way home... and I couldn’t stop. I took it to the gym and I expect people saw me smiling a lot while I was exercising and reading. This is très ‘cool’. It is fun, but they cover a lot of ground and they are right to the point. I’m really impressed.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Erich Gamma, IBM Distinguished Engineer, and coauthor of <span class="emphasis"><em>Design Patterns</em></span> with the rest of the Gang of Four — Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“<span class="emphasis"><em>Head First Design Patterns</em></span> manages to mix fun, belly-laughs, insight, technical depth, and great practical advice in one entertaining and thought-provoking read. Whether you are new to design patterns, or have been using them for years, you are sure to get something from visiting Objectville.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Richard Helm, coauthor of <span class="emphasis"><em>Design Patterns</em></span> with rest of the Gang of Four — Erich Gamma, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“I feel like a thousand pounds of books have just been lifted off of my head.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Ward Cunningham, inventor of the Wiki and founder of the Hillside Group</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“This book is close to perfect, because of the way it combines expertise and readability. It speaks with authority and it reads beautifully. It’s one of the very few software books I’ve ever read that strikes me as indispensable. (I’d put maybe 10 books in this category, at the outside.)”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>David Gelernter, Professor of Computer Science, Yale University, and author of <span class="emphasis"><em>Mirror Worlds</em></span> and <span class="emphasis"><em>Machine Beauty</em></span></strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“A Nose Dive into the realm of patterns, a land where complex things become simple, but where simple things can also become complex. I can think of no better tour guides than Eric and Elisabeth.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Miko Matsumura, Industry Analyst, The Middleware Company Former Chief Java Evangelist, Sun Microsystems</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“I laughed, I cried, it moved me.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Daniel Steinberg, Editor-in-Chief, java.net</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“My first reaction was to roll on the floor laughing. After I picked myself up, I realized that not only is the book technically accurate, it is the easiest-to-understand introduction to design patterns that I have seen.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Dr. Timothy A. Budd, Associate Professor of Computer Science at Oregon State University and author of more than a dozen books, including <span class="emphasis"><em>C++ for Java Programmers</em></span></strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div>“Jerry Rice runs patterns better than any receiver in the NFL, but Eric and Elisabeth have out run him. Seriously...this is one of the funniest and smartest books on software design I’ve ever read.”</div><div class="attribution"><div> — <span class="attribution"><span class="strong"><strong>Aaron LaBerge, SVP Technology &amp; Product Development, ESPN</strong></span></span></div></div></blockquote></div></section></body></html>